hello guys welcome to my channel in this
video we're gonna talk about words that
you definitely definitely definitely
gonna need if you're looking to apply to
english-speaking universities so if you
want to brush up your English vocabulary
learn some new words and also learn a
little about university application
process police continue watching this
video
the first very important word is called
admissions and admissions is actually
section on the University's website
where you're going to learn about
everything you need in order to apply
sometimes they call it admission
requirements which means they can enlist
all of the things that you need in order
to submit your application and there is
also thing called I think admissions
committee which is a group of people who
are actually going through your
application documents and are deciding
whether they should admit you or not
thing number two if you're looking to
apply to American universities you
should definitely definitely consider
financial aid as you know American
universities are really expensive but
it's also a common knowledge that not
every student face the whole tradition I
would say like every second student
receives some kind of financial aid and
financial aid is actually money that
you're receiving from other sources not
like your pocket but from universities
funds maybe some external funds maybe
you're working for a university and
you're getting paid so this is called
financial aid and these are means to
actually lower the price of your
education and there are different kinds
of financial aid there is married based
financial aid which means that you are
awarded some money based on whatever
you've achieved before so for example if
you're a straight-a student if you have
different publications if you took part
in competitions you can apply for
merit-based financial aid if you're just
applying to a university and you're a
great student and you're applying to a
top university you can also consider
need-based financial aid
so need-based financial aid is available
mostly to domestic American students but
if you're an international student and
you're applying to a top university like
Harvard for example Harvard provides
need-based financial aid for
international students as well which
means that what Harvard says is that if
you got admitted to Harvard and you
don't have money you will still be able
to study because we're gonna cover the
rest of your costs and don't worry
you're gonna be able to study because
need-based financial aid is gonna
provide you enough money to cover
everything that you need in order to
study in Harvard and financial aid is
sometimes full financial aid which means
it covers tuition fees which is money
you pay for education so
you pay to the University for like
listening to their lectures and second
part is room and board this is a
traditional saying like room and board
is accommodation and food that you're
gonna eat here in your studies sometimes
they covered it in the form of stipend
for example they pay you like I don't
know it depends on the university from
600 to 1000 dollars a month in order for
you to support yourself sometimes they
provide you accommodation again it
depends on the university two other
important words to remember there need
aware universities which means
universities that are gonna consider
your need to get external funds for
example you're applying to master's
program and you say in your application
materials that the only way for you to
study would be receiving financial aid
so and if we the universities need aware
and they look at your application to say
hey maybe this guy is not that good for
receiving full financial aid they can
just reject your application based on
that so be careful here if you have some
money for your education I would
definitely mention them in the
application materials because if the
university is need aware they can just
reject your application based on your
request for full financial assistance
but there are also need-blind
universities again Harvard is need-blind
which means whatever you state in your
application how much money you have how
much money you're gonna need from
University they're not gonna consider it
as part of their of your application
they just gonna consider your academic
performance your motivation letter your
background and this is good for talented
students who looking to apply for great
universities like top universities and
who have limited budget to support
themselves during studies going back to
the application there is a thing called
application fees something that you pay
to the University employees so that they
could evaluate your application go
through your materials so you pay for
the time and application fees can be
really different sometimes application
fees like 30 to 60 dollars which is
slightly okay there are also like mi
t--'s application fee for the MBA
program was 245 dollars last year and I
think that's too much because if you're
applying to five top universities you
can end up paying more than one thousand
dollars in application fees but hello
lifehack from marina there is an
application fee waiver which means that
you can ask
University to not pay the application
fee and they would normally tell it like
top universities wouldn't do that but
some universities would say hey our
application fee waiver requirements are
like GMAT starting with 700 or like high
TOEFL scores or maybe they would just
evaluate your applications say you're
good enough to qualify for the
application fee waiver so in my case I
got application fee waivers from I think
for universities out of six that I
applied for so definitely definitely
consider asking University to waive your
the obligation fee the next section of
the admissions Brodus is a very very
very important section called motivation
letters sometimes it's also called
personal statement which means that this
is the only section where you could show
yourself as a personality which is a
letter where you write about things that
motivate you to apply to the program
things that happen to you in the past
who form just you as a personality which
determined whatever you want to do later
in your life so really pay attention to
this section and put a lot of effort
into it because to my opinion this is
like 30% of your whole application and I
would definitely pull like 30% of my
preparation time into writing a perfect
motivation letter and what's very
important again this is something that
I've came up with when I roll my
motivation letters I also mentioned
faculty faculty is another word faculty
is actually people who work for the
university again the value of education
is actually meeting new people and
hanging out with amazing professors so
what I did I actually went to the
faculty section of the university's
website look at the professors who are
teaching at this program and I said hey
there's this professor actually read his
article on this this and that and it
would be really excited that I would
have an opportunity to discuss this this
and that with this professor and you can
find the name of all the all of the
professors and the faculty section
another thing that you would need to
submit with your application is called
recommendation letter or better a letter
of recommendation and this is when you
ask your teacher or your manager or your
colleague to write a letter about you
and tell the University why you're a
good fit for the program and here you
need to have somebody who works with you
like
or really often so they know you well so
they can tell real anecdotes and
anecdotes means real stories that define
you as a personality one last thing that
I wanted to mention about the
application process is transcript
transcripts is actually papers from your
previous University which say which
subjects that you've listened to which
grades you have received and for the
application purposes you would just need
to supply scanned copies of your
transcripts but if the University says
yes who want you and you say yes I want
you to and you're like a perfect match
you go to that University they're gonna
ask you for official transcripts and an
official transcript is actually an
original paper then you're gonna ask
your university for and you're gonna put
it in a sealed envelope which means the
university an envelope that is sealed
great explanation right and so you're
gonna put it in a sealed envelope in
your university and send it to the
American University or Canadian British
whatever and this is called official
transcript in a sealed envelope there is
also a thing called diploma evaluation
sometimes universities for example Johns
Hopkins says we don't want to see your
original transcripts but we want you to
send them to a credential evaluation
agency in the United States
I've sent mine to the ECE evaluation
agency and they look through my
transcripts and they said so for example
I have a specialist degree from Russia
and this had that specialist degree in
America is actually bachelor's and
master's so they send me an official
paper confirming that I have master's
already which so Johns Hopkins just
required the credential evaluation
process but not all of the universities
do so be really careful don't do it just
in vain because it cost some money it
costs I think from two hundred to three
hundred dollars depending on the agency
that you're using no say ninety percent
of American universities do not require
any credential evaluation process and
the last thing graduation requirements
this is the section on the university's
website where you see what you actually
need to do in order to receive the
degree from this University and they
would have a list of subjects they would
also have a curriculum they you will
have curriculum is the list of the
subjects that you will need to listen to
and there are core subjects for example
if you're doing economics you would
definitely have like I don't know
economics Wan macro you can
and if you're doing economics or
concentration in marketing you're gonna
have electives and electives means that
not everyone have not everybody has to
listen to these subjects but if you're
concentrating in some particular subject
you're gonna have to listen to them like
I don't know digital marketing so this
was that guys I hope this video is
useful for you let me know there are any
other words that confuse you when you're
in the process of your application or if
you're just starting let me know what
confuses you I'll be happy to answer
those questions and and if you like this
video don't forget to like it if you're
not yet subscribed to this channel
please subscribe because it's a great
see you later bye
[Music]